<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ObjVar01">

 <title>Objective variables</title>

 <shortdesc/>
  <!-- revenir sur l'index 
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords><indexterm conkeyref="ObjVar/verbSem01">verbal semantic</indexterm></keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  -->
 <conbody>
   <note><ul>
        <li>XPath: /teiCorpus/TEI[1]/teiHeader[1]/encodingDesc[1]/classDecl[1]/taxonomy[2]</li><li id="xmlTEI_objV">XML-TEI elements: <xref
            href="http://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/ref-taxonomy.html"
            format="html" scope="external">taxonomy</xref>|<xref
            href="http://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/ref-category.html"
            format="html" scope="external">category</xref></li>
     <li>XML-TEI attributes: <xref href="http://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/CO.html#CORS" format="html" scope="external"><xmlatt>xml:id</xmlatt></xref></li>
     <li>Values: objectiveData|CATEGORY|SUBCATEGORY</li>
     <li><xref href="schema.dita#concept_schemaIMG/image_objVar" format="dita" scope="local">Schema
       of objective variables</xref> ➟</li>
   </ul>
   </note>
   <p>They are several variables (<xmlelement>category</xmlelement>) which provide relevant
      information on the character's acting (<xref href="PrimData.dita">primary data</xref>): <xref
        href="ObjVar.dita#concept_ObjVar01/verbSem01" format="dita">verbal semantic</xref>, <xref
        href="ObjVar.dita#concept_ObjVar01/sphere01" format="dita">sphere</xref>, <xref
        href="ObjVar.dita#concept_ObjVar01/context01" format="dita">context</xref>, <xref
        href="ObjVar.dita#concept_ObjVar01/role01" format="dita">role</xref>, <xref
        href="ObjVar.dita#concept_ObjVar01/bioSex01" format="dita">biological sex</xref>, which
      follow the same semantic frame for marking up a type of
      taxonomy:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;taxonomy xml:id="objectiveData">
    &lt;category xml:id="NAME OF A VARIABLE"/>
    &lt;category xml:id="NAME OF A SUBVARIABLE"/>
&lt;/taxonomy></codeblock></p>
   <note>a variable = category or taxonomy. A subvariable = subcategory or subtaxonomy.</note>
    <p>➤ Each <xmlatt>xml:id</xmlatt> from <xmlelement>taxonomy</xmlelement> ➞
        <xmlelement>category</xmlelement>, and <xmlelement>taxonomy</xmlelement> ➞
        <xmlelement>category</xmlelement> ➞ <xmlelement>category</xmlelement> will be use in R. </p>
    <p/>
     <ol>
       <li id="verbSem01"><b>Verbal semantic</b>
         <ul>
           <li id="verbTaxo01">Taxonomy <xmlelement>category</xmlelement> ➞ <xmlatt>xml:id</xmlatt>
            TAXO: action <note><i>The current research is on the animated entities action, but of
                course the same semantic markup can be apply to other semantic
              categories.</i></note>
            <ul>
              <li id="verbSub01">Subtaxonomies, <xmlelement>category</xmlelement> ➞
                  <xmlatt>xml:id</xmlatt> subTAXO: movement, agression, confrontation,destruction,
                displacement, put together</li>
              <li>XLM-TEI example:
                <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;category xml:id="semantic">
   &lt;category xml:id="action">
     &lt;category xml:id="destruction"/>
   &lt;/category>    
&lt;/category>                </codeblock></li>
            </ul></li> 
         </ul>
       </li>
       <li id="context01"><b>Context </b>
     <ul>
       <li>&#x27af; in which the action takes place.</li>
      <li>Subcategories <xmlelement>category</xmlelement> ➞ <xmlatt>xml:id</xmlatt>: ritual, battle,
              single combat, assembly, prayer, feast, wedding, burial, seduction, meeting,
              complaint, lawsuit, threat, revenge, visit, unknown (unknown_C), broken context
              (B_ctx_C).</li>
      <li>XML-TEI example:
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;category xml:id="context">
    &lt;category xml:id="ritual"/>
&lt;/category> </codeblock>
          </li>
     </ul></li>
       <li id="sphere01"><b>Sphere</b> <ul>
       <li>&#x27af; where the event takes place, inside or outside the household.</li>
      <li>Subcategories <xmlelement>category</xmlelement> ➞ <xmlatt>xml:id</xmlatt>: inside,
              outside, unknown (unknown_S), broken context (B_ctx_S).</li>
      <li>XMT-TEI
            example:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;category xml:id="sphere">
    &lt;category xml:id="inside"/>
&lt;/category></codeblock></li>
     </ul></li>
       <li id="role01"><b>Role</b> <ul>
            <li>&#x27af; of the animated entity</li>
            <li>Subcategories <xmlelement>category</xmlelement> ➞ <xmlatt>xml:id</xmlatt>: active,
              passive, both Active (animated entities X and Y)</li>
            <li>XML-TEI example:
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;category xml:id="role">
    &lt;category xml:id="active"/>
&lt;category/>      </codeblock>
          </li>
          </ul></li>
       <li id="bioSex01"><b>Biological sex</b> <ul>
      <li>&#x27af; traditionally known.</li> 
     <li>Subcategories <xmlelement>category</xmlelement> ➞ <xmlatt>xml:id</xmlatt>: female,
            male</li>
      <li>XML-TEI example:
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;category xml:id="biologicalSex">
    &lt;category xml:id="female_Sx"/>
&lt;category/></codeblock>
          </li>
     </ul></li>
     </ol>

 </conbody>

</concept>
