<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_SubjVar01">
 <title>Subjective variables</title>
 <shortdesc/>
 <conbody>
  <note><ul>
        <li>XPath: /teiCorpus/TEI/teiHeader/encodingDesc[1]/classDecl[1]/taxonomy[3]</li><li id="xmlTEI_subjD">TEI-XML elements: <xref
            href="http://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/ref-taxonomy.html"
            format="html" scope="external">taxonomy</xref>|<xref
            href="http://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/ref-category.html"
            format="html" scope="external">category</xref></li>
   <li>TEI-XML attributes: <xref href="http://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/CO.html#CORS" format="html" scope="external"><xmlatt>xml:id</xmlatt></xref></li>
   <li>Values: subjectiveData|CATEGORY|SUBCATEGORY</li>
        <li>Existent RDF class: <xref href="http://www.gsi.dit.upm.es/ontologies/onyx/"
            format="html" scope="external">Onyx Ontology Specification</xref> Class:onyx:<xref
            href="http://www.gsi.dit.upm.es/ontologies/onyx/#EmotionCategory" format="html"
            scope="external">EmotionCategory</xref></li>
    <li><xref href="schema.dita#concept_schemaIMG/image_subjVar" format="dita" scope="local">Schema
      of subjective variables</xref> ➟</li>
  </ul>
  </note>
  <p>They are several variables: consequence, emotion (affectivity), degree of desire, voluntary
      intentionality, which follow the same semantic frame for marking up a type of subjective
      variables' taxonomy:<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;taxonomy xml:id="subjectiveVar" ana="taxonomies">
    &lt;category xml:id="NAME OF A VARIABLE"/>
      &lt;category xml:id="NAME OF A SUBVARIABLE"/>
&lt;/taxonomy></codeblock>
      <note>a variable = category or taxonomy. A subvariable = subcategory or
      subtaxonomy.</note></p>
    <p> ➤ Each <xmlatt>xml:id</xmlatt> from <xmlelement>taxonomy</xmlelement> ➞
        <xmlelement>category</xmlelement>, and <xmlelement>taxonomy</xmlelement> ➞
        <xmlelement>category</xmlelement> ➞ <xmlelement>category</xmlelement> will be used in R. </p>
    <p/>
      <ul id="ul_xdm_lzs_gz">
        <li id="conseq01"><b>Consequence</b><ul id="ul_ydm_lzs_gz">
            <li>&#x27af; how is the AE affected by the action?</li>
            <li>Subcategories <xmlelement>category</xmlelement> ➞ <xmlatt>xml:id</xmlatt>: affects
            AE (subject), affect AE (subject) and other, affect other AE(s).</li>
            <li>XML-TEI example:
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;category xml:id="consequence" ana="subjectiveVar">
    &lt;category xml:id="affectEntity"/>
&lt;/category>       </codeblock>
          </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
      <ul id="ul_zdm_lzs_gz">
        <li id="affect01"><b>Emotion</b>
        <ul id="ul_a2m_lzs_gz">
          <li>&#x27af; what kind of emotion (affectivity in philosophy of action) and its
            intenstity?</li>
          <li>Subcategories (26) from <xref
              href="https://www.w3.org/TR/emotion-voc/#fsre-categories" format="html"
              scope="external">FSRE categories</xref> (24: anger, anxiety, being hurt, compassion,
            contempt, contentment, despair, disappointment, disgust, fear, guilt, happiness, hate,
            interest, irritation, jealousy, joy, love, pleasure, pride, sadness, shame, stress,
            surprise), to which I add satisfaction (from <xref
              href="https://www.w3.org/TR/emotion-voc/#occ-categories" format="html"
              scope="external">OCC categories</xref>) and discouragement. <ul id="ul_b2m_lzs_gz">
              <li>hasEmotionIntensity <xmlelement>category</xmlelement> ➞ <xmlatt>xml:id</xmlatt>:
                feeble, medium, normal, hight, very hight (equals a numerical value from 1 to
                5)</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>TEI-XML example:
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;category xml:id="EmotionCategory" ana="subjectiveVar">
    &lt;category xml:id="rage"/>
    &lt;category xml:id="hasEmotionIntensity" ana="EmotionCategory">
        &lt;category xml:id="medium"/>
    &lt;/category>  
&lt;/category>        </codeblock>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      </ul>
      <ul id="ul_c2m_lzs_gz">
        <li id="degree01"><b>Degree of desire</b>
        <ul id="ul_d2m_lzs_gz">
          <li>&#x27af; What is the action tendency?</li>
          <li>Subcategories <xmlelement>category</xmlelement> ➞ <xmlatt>xml:id</xmlatt>: from one to
            five (number_dD), and unknown (unknown_dD), broken context (B_ctx_dD)</li>
          <li>TEI-XML example:
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;category xml:id="degreeDesire" ana="subjectiveVar">
   &lt;category xml:id="two_dD"/>
&lt;/category>        </codeblock>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      </ul>
      <ul id="ul_e2m_lzs_gz">
        <li id="volIntent01"><b>Voluntary intentionality</b>
        <ul id="ul_f2m_lzs_gz">
          <li>&#x27af; What type of voluntary intentionality (one or two subcategories can be used
            according to <xref href="ObjVar.dita#concept_ObjVar01/context01" format="dita" scope="local">context</xref>), and what motivation?</li>
          <li>Subcategories <xmlelement>category</xmlelement> ➞ <xmlatt>xml:id</xmlatt> —
            non-exhaustive listing: to advocate, to blame, to build, to buy, to claim, to clean, to
            care for, to complain, to cure, to defense in court, to destroy, to feed, to fight, to
            give birth, to kill, to make love, to negociate, to perform a ritual, to pray, to
            protect, to revenge, to sentence, to sell, to threaten.<ul id="ul_g2m_lzs_gz">
              <li id="motiv_vI01">What motivation: pressure or free will.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>TEI-XML example:
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;category xml:id="voluntaryIntent" ana="subjectiveVar">
   &lt;category xml:id="toKill"/>
   &lt;category xml:id="motivation_vI">
      &lt;category xml:id="free"/>
   &lt;/category> 
&lt;/category>          </codeblock>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      </ul>

 </conbody>
</concept>
